##### Boot Integrity
---
**Unified Extensible Firmware Interface (UEFI)**: Specification for platform firmware. Sucessor of BIOS.

- https://medium.com/ai%E5%8F%8D%E6%96%97%E5%9F%8E/other-uefi-bios-legacy-%E6%B7%BA%E8%AB%87%E4%B8%BB%E6%A9%9F%E6%9D%BFuefi%E8%A7%80%E5%BF%B5%E8%88%87%E8%BF%B7%E6%80%9D-%E8%BD%89%E9%8C%84-dc86f61b85bd

**Measured Boot**: Measuring the boot components and selected files during boot process.
- UEFI will create hashes on all components, such as firmware, boot drivers.
- The hashes will be stored in TPM.

| Order | Process | Details |
| ---- | ---- | ---- |
| First | Secure Boot | UEFI feature to check bootloader integrity |
|  | Trusted Boot | Verifies the OS kernel signature and starts the ELAM process (Early Launch Anti-Malware) |
| Last | Measured Boot | Verifies computer files, firmware, boot drivers, etc. |

**Remote Attestation**: Authenticates the measured results from measured boot to the remote server.
- Usually used when there are many devices.

##### Application Security
---
**Dynamic code analysis**: Use a dictionary of known vulnerabilities and randomized inputs to fuzz an application.
- Executed on runtime 

**Static code analysis**: Automated source code review.
- Analysis is performed without executing the program.
- Buffer overflow are commonly detected by static code analysis.

**Secure Cookies**: Setting secure attribute on cookies, will force browser to only send cookies via HTTPS.

**HTTP Secure Headers**

##### Application Hardening
---
**Full Disk Encryption (FDE)**: Encrypt the whole disk, not just the files. Usually encrypts data when writing.
- E.g., BitLocker

**Self Encrypting Drive (SED)**: Drives that can encrypt itself in a hardware level. 
- OPAL standard.


**Sandboxing**: Application is isolated in a sandbox environment.
- Comparing to virtualisation, Virtualisation is virtualising OS, while sandbox usually just virtualise files and settings within the OS 

