##### Load Balancing
--- 
**Load Balancer**: Redirect inbound traffics to different servers in the internal network to balance the load.
- Also can be used for TCP & SSL Offloading, basically means stripping off these protocols before sending the packets to internal servers to increase efficiency.
- Caching contents for quick browsing.
- Prioritization
- Content switching: application-centric balancing. Redirect to specific servers based on the application requested.

**Scheduling**: How tasks are scheduled to different servers:
- **Round-Robin**: Redirect to each server in turn. (ABCD  -> ABC -> D -> ABCD)
- **Weighted Round-Robin**: some servers are prioritized
- **Dynamic Round-Robin**: Actively monitor the lowest used server and redirect to that server
- This is Active/active load balancing: all servers are active, not stand-by.

**Active/Passive Load Balancing**: Some servers are active, some stand-by and active when the active ones go down.

**Virtual IP**: Load balancing using virtual IP addresses for each application.
- Connection-based, not load-based. Load on each app is not consider.

**Persistence (Affinity):** Same session IDs get the same server. 

##### Network Segmentation
--- 
**Virtual Local Area Networks (VLAN)**: Can be used as logical segmentation of networks, same physical devices but separated logically.

**East-west traffic**: Data flow within the same network

**North-south traffic**: Inbound and outbound traffics

##### Virtual Private Network (VPN)
---
**VPN concentrator**: a device for encrypting data that sent out & decrypting data that come in during a VPN connection.
- Can be integrated with Firewalls.
- Can be hardware or software.
- From client to VPN concentrator - encrypted. From VPN concentrator to internal server - on the clear text.

**SSL VPN**: Using port 443 & TCP for VPN communication. Encrypted with TLS.
- 443: commonly used for SSL (e.g. HTTPS)
- Authentication: does not require Digital certificates & Shared password (c.f. IPSec VPN)
- Does not require large clients. Can even be integrated in modern browsers (HTML5)

**Full Tunnel**: All data is first sent from client side to the VPN concentrator, then the concentrator sends the request for you and return the data from the server.

**Split Tunnel**: Can configure to allow some traffic outside the tunnel (Direct connection between client and 3rd party, VPN concentrator will not be involved)

**Layer 2 Tunnelling Protocol (L2TP)**: A tunnelling protocol used in VPN. 
- Tunnelling: establishes a "tunnel" between two points on a network, a virtual path that simulates a direct link between two points over a public network as in a private network.
	- Encapsulating one network protocol with the payload of another network protocol.
- This is mainly achieved by ***encapsulating data packets*** within the tunnelling protocol packets (headers & trailers). The public network will see this "wrapped" data packets as private mails that are sent point-to-point.
- **Encapsulation**: Data conversation for data to moving across layers.
- **Layer 2**: L2TP encapsulates layer 2 frame from source machine and send the L2TP packet to the destination machine. The destination machine then de-encapsulate the L2TP headers and use the original frame directly. This allow data to be communicated like both machines are in the same local network.

**L2TP / IPSec**: as L2TP doesn't encrypt its payload, it is usually combined with IPSec for secure communication. IPSec ensures confidentiality and integrity.
- Uses UDP. Port 1701

##### Physical Port Security
---
**Broadcast Storm Control**: Switches can control & limit the number of broadcast per second.
- Can be static (numbers per second) or dynamic (actively monitor and adjust over traffic)

**Loop protection**: Prevent network loops (information travels from same source to same destination)
- Very easy to occur: switches/routers connected to itself with an Ethernet cable, or two switches connected to each other and send traffics back and forth.
- Solution: IEEE standard 802.1D (STP)

**Spanning Tree Protocol (STP)**: Manual block certain links within a network to avoid loops.
- Spanning Tree, one way from the origin and spread like a tree diagram, won't go circle.
- Could be slow as need to perform calculation for best path to block & rearrange when some paths are down.
- For Cisco Routers: Root Guard can be used to prevent unauthorized switches set up in the network.

**Bridge Protocol Data Unit (BPDU) Guard:**  Allow faster connection (PortFast) of device to the switch while still preventing loops.
- BPDU: Primary protocol used by STP to communicate relevant data.
- PortFast: When PortFast is active on a port in a switch, it no longer uses STP, therefore allow fast connection of device.
- BPDU Guard: Switches will send BPDU frames out. If a port of a PortFast-enabled switch received a BPDU frame, it will disable PortFast in order to prevent loops. (reactivate STP)

**DHCP Snooping**:  Configure the switch to exclude rogue DHCP servers. Whitelisted a series of trusted interface.
- Filter out DHCP requests / communication coming from an untrusted device (Blacklist)

**MAC filtering**: Limit access based on MAC address.
- However MAC address can be spoofed. Not secure.


##### Secure Networking
---
**DNSSEC**: Security Extension for DNS. Use Public Key Cryptography to sign DNS records with a trusted third party.
- Validate DNS responses: Origin & integrity.

**DNS for security**: Applying DNS for additional security.
- E.g., Redirect users to a sinkhole address when users visit dangerous sites.

**Out-of-band Management**: Accessing & managing network devices when it is not reachable through the network (or when the network is down).
- Devices have a separate management interface, usually a USB port or other ports.
- These ports can be connected to a modern, so that we can dial into them instead of using the network.
- Large companies also commonly have a console router (comm server). A centralised server connecting to multiple devices' out-of-band management interfaces.

**Quality of Service (QoS)**: Prioritization of traffic for different services.

**Taps and Port Mirrors**: Hardware & software that intercept network traffic
- **Taps**: A physical device that can be add between a link to listen to all the traffic.
- **Port Mirror**: Software based tapping mechanisms in switches
- Both are passive monitoring. Active monitoring is things like SNMP (Simple Network Management Protocol)

**File Integrity Monitoring (FIM)**: Check if files are changed. Some crucial files, such as the OS, should never be changed.
- Windows: System File Checker (SFC)
- Linux: Tripwire. Real time checking.

##### Firewall
---
**Network-based Firewall**: Filter traffic by port number of applications.

**Stateless vs Stateful**: Keep track of traffic flow directions.
- Stateless need rules in both directions, while stateful only need one direction (outbound.)
	- Even when there is no "allow" rule in ACL for inbound, the stateful firewall can check its session table to see if this connection is belonged to a current session.
	- With less "allow" inbound rules, stateful firewalls can prevent bad actors sending forged requests that try to follow inbound rules (e.g., sending request to port 443 without previous conversation.)

##### Network Access Control (NAC)
---
**Edge vs. Access Control**: 
- **Edge control**: managed by rules in firewall. At the edge of internal network and the internet.
	- Firewall rules are seldom changed.
- **Access Control**: Allowing and disallowing access to the network based on sets of rules.
	- Can be controlled from inside or outside. (Control inbound and outbound access)
	- Access control rules can be changed drastically.

**Posture Assessment**: check device security before allowing them to connect to the network.
- Install software on the device. Can be persistence or dissolvable (temporary).
- Agentless NAC: In Active Directory. Checks are made during login and logout.

##### Proxy Servers
---
**Forward Proxy**: For users to connect to the internet.
- Also known as Internal Proxy. 
- Content filtering. Access Control of internal users.

**Reverse Proxy**: For the internet users to connect to internal servers.
- Proxy for Inbound traffic. 
- Direct traffic & request to internal servers if they passed security & content check.

##### Intrusion Prevention
---
**Network-based Intrusion Detection/Prevention System (NIDS & NIPS)**: services that monitor traffic and block malicious traffic.
- Sometimes IPS that are too slow will be referred to IDS.

**Passive monitoring**: Examine a copy of the traffic.
- E.g. Port Mirroring (Switch Port Analyzer (SPAN) in Cisco), network tap.

**Out-of-Band response**: When IPS identify malicious traffic flow from port mirroring, it can send a TCP reset frame to the switch to stop future connections.
- However could not stop the previously received frame.

**Inline Monitoring**: IPS sits between internet and the switch.
- Active Monitoring.
- All traffic is passed through the IPS, and drop malicious packets.

**Identification Technologies:**
- Signature based: Hash / some distinct codes.
- Anomaly-based: Train the system with data to establish a baseline of normal activities, then flag the abnormal ones.
	- Can identify novel attacks, but may miss known attacks.
- Behavior-based: Identify bad behaviours.
	- E.g., opening cmd, Identify malicious behaviours like SQL injections, or geolocate login.
- Heuristics: Use AI and machine learning.

##### Network Appliances
---
**Jump Server**: A very secure device that sits between the internal network and clients. 
- External clients have to connect to the Jump server first and get authorized.
- After authorized, establish a SSH/VPN tunnel to the Jump server. and jump from there to the internal servers.

**Hardware Security Module (HSM)**: Specialized hardware to encrypt data.

**Unified Threat Management (UTM)**: All-in-one network security appliance.
- Not just firewall, but a bunch of other functions such as URL filtering, content inspection, IPS/IDS, malware inspection, etc.
- Network-based, not device-based. Therefore does not include functionalities such as MDM.


