##### Authentication management
---
**Password key**: Physical USB device to login in.

**Trusted Platform Module (TPM)**: Hardware module usually on motherboard.

**HSM**


##### PAP and CHAP
---
**Password Authentication Protocol (PAP)**: a basic authentication method. In legacy system only.
- Sent information to the AAA server on the clear. No encryption.

**Challenge-Handshake Authentication Protocol (CHAP)**: Encrypted challenge sent over the network.
- Three-way handshake:
	1. After established a link, server sends a challenge message (a challenge string)
	2. Client responds with a password hash calculated from the password and the challenge.
	3. Server compares the hash with the stored hash.

- **MS-CHAP**: Microsoft version of CHAP. Very weak as it use DES.

##### Identity and Access Services
---
**Remote Authentication Dial-in User Service (RADIUS)**: One of the more common AAA protocol.
- Available on most OS.
- No SSO functionality.
- Used a shared secret to obfuscate passwords.
- Commonly used with 802.1x
- Port 1812.

**Terminal Access Controller Access-Control System (TACACS)**: Remote authentication protocol.
- **XTACACS (Extended TACACS)**: Developed by Cisco.
- **TACACS+**: Latest version. Root from Cisco. 
- No SSO functionality.

**Kerberos**: Network authentication that provides SSO.
- Use mutual authentication.
- Use service ticket for SSO (Ticket granting services, TGS). Receive the ticket when logged in, then show this ticket every time when accessing the servers.
- Open standard. Commonly used in Microsoft.

**IEEE 802.1x**: Port-based Network Access Control (NAC)
- No access to the network unless authenticated.
- No SSO functionality inherently.
- Integrated with EAP, and a backend server mentioned above.


##### Federated Identities
---
**Federation**: Allow others to authenticate using accounts from a third party.
- E.g., Sign in with Google.

**Security Assertion Markup Language (SAML)**: Open standard for authentication and authorization.
- Previously used in SSO. Can used be used in third party login (Federation)
- Outdated, as not good on mobile device.


**OAuth**: Authorization framework. Only decide what application can be accessed.
- Only authorize claims, but not authenticate users.
- **OpenID Connect** is used for authentication (SSO)
- Two Os used together.
	
**Relying Parties (RP)**: Service provider in federation (intended service to use.)

**Identity Provider (IdP)**: Provide identity information of the user (e.g., Google when logging in LinkedIn.)
	- Usually same as **Security Token Service (STS)**

OAuth:

##### Access Control
---
**Mandatory Access Control (MAC)**: OS limits access in terms of objects.
- Every object in the OS gets a label of clearance level.
- Only users with correct label can access the object.
- Users cannot edit their access level even if they created the object.
- Commonly used in military. (Confidential, Secret, Top Secret.)
- Strongest level of protection.

**Discretionary Access Control (DAC)**: Creator of an object can assign access rights and permissions to it.

**Role-Based Access Control (RBAC)**: Access is assigned based on role (groups)

**Attribute-Based Access Control (ABAC)**: Use many parameters to assign access. very complex and context-aware.

**Rule-based Access Control**: Generic term of Access control. Rules are set.

**Privileged Access Management (PAM)**: Temporary root access granted from a centralised place.

