##### Wireless Cryptography
---
**Wireless Protected Access 2 (WPA2)**: Use CCMP Block cipher.
- Attackers can listen to the four-way handshake and brute force the pre-shared key (PSK).
- If PSK is cracked, then no more forward secrecy.

**Wireless Protected Access 3 (WPA3)**: Use GCMP Block cipher.
- Stronger than WPA2.
- Changed authentication process - mutual authentication.
- Creates session key without sending across network. No more handshake.
- Has perfect forward secrecy.
- Used **Simultaneous Authentication of Equals (SAE)**: Derived from Diffie-Hellman Key exchange with an authentication component.

##### Wireless Authentication Methods
---
**Wireless Authentication Methods**:
- Pre-shared Keys (PSK). Labelled with "Personal"
- Centralized Authentication (802.1X): use credentials to login. Labelled with "Enterprise"
	- For WPA3-Personal, although PSK is used and it is the same for everyone, WPA3 will create unique session keys for each users using SAE.
	- For WPA3-Enterprise, RADIUS, TACACS or LDAP are used to authenticate users with credentials, and 802.1X must be used.

**Captive Portal**: The pop-out login portal when connected to a WiFi network.
- Will check if you are authenticated. If not, then redirect to this portal.
- Usually uses 802.1x and RADIUS.

**WiFi Protected Setup (WPS)**: Easier setup of mobile device without using PSK or 802.1x.
- E.g. Use PIN of the phone to access WiFi, or push the button on router, or NFC.
- Not that secure.

##### Wireless Authentication Protocols
---
**Extensible Authentication Protocol (EAP)**: Authentication framework
- Usually used with 802.1x in enterprises. 

**IEEE 802.1x**: Also known as Port-based Network Access Control (NAC)
- One can access only after authentication.
- Used with access database with RADIUS, LDAP, TACACS+(Cisco)

**EAP Flexible Authentication via Secure Tunnelling (EAP-FAST)**: Use secure tunneling between authentication server and the supplicant (user) to transfer credentials.
- AS sends a Protected access credential (PAC) to the supplicant and build a TLS tunnel.
- Need a RADIUS server.

**Protected Extensible Authentication Protocol (PEAP)**: Created by Cisco, Microsoft and RSA Security.
- Also use a secure TLS tunnel. But use digital certificate instead of PAC.
- Encapsulate EAP within a TLS tunnel.
- Microsoft also use MS-CHAPv2 database to authenticate.
- Also can be used with a Generic Token Card (GTC) or Hardware token generator.

**EAP-TLS**: Require mutual authentication using digital certificates from both sides.

**EAP-Tunnelled TLS (EAP-TTLS)**: Support other authentication protocols in the tunnel.
- Does not require both certificates like EAP-TLS.

**RADIUS Federation**: Use RADIUS with federation.
- Use 802.1x and RADIUS and EAP.
- E.g. Eduroam.