##### Public Key Infrastructure
---
**Key management cycle**: Generation, distribution, storage, use, expiration (destruction)

**Digital Certificate**: A public key certificate that binds a public key with a digital signature and other details about the key holder.
- The signature is added for trust and authentication and integrity of the key.
- The signature came from the Certificate Authority - the CA is the central point of trust.

**Commercial Certificate Authorities (CA)**: OS and Browsers have a list of trusted commercial CAs.
- People can purchase certificates from the CAs.
	- Performed by building key pairs on local machine and provided the public key to the CAs.
	- This is called **Certificate Signing Request (CSR)**

**Private Certificate Authorities**: Built a in-house CA.
- Internal devices trust the internal CA.

**PKI Trust relationships**: Single or Hierarchical.
- Single CA: one CA to assign certs to all devices.
- Hierarchical: Root CA assigns certs to Intermediate CAs, then they further assign certs to leaf CAs.
	- Easier to manage and revoke particular CAs.

**Registration Authority (RA)**: Perform additional checks before CA signing the certificates.

**Important Certificate Attributes**:
- **Common Name (CN)**: The Fully Qualified Domain Name (FQDN) for the certificate.
	- Check the domain name in the address bar and the certificate. 
	- Add additional name by adding **Subject alternative name**
- **Expiration**: Less than 13 months.

**Certificate Revocation List (CRL)**: A large file stored in CA to record what keys and certs are revoked.

**Online Certificate Status Protocol (OCSP)**: Browser can check online for certificate revocation information, without having to download the CRL.
- Send request to OSCP responder via HTTP.


##### Types of Certificates
---
**Web server SSL certificates:**
- **Domain Validation (DV)**: Check if the domain if legitimate. Owner of cert has control of the DNS domain.
- **Extended Validation (EV)**: Some extra information & addition checks on the cert. Usually for big companies / organisations only.
- **Subject alternative name (SAN)**: Allow certificates to support many domain names.
	- **Wildcard Domain**: use \* as wildcards for domains. e.g., `*.example.com`

**Code signing certificates**: Software validation check.

**Root certificate**: Starting point of the CA. Foundation of the PKI.

**Self-signed Certificates**: Signed internally with the internal CAs.
- Internal devices should all trust internal CAs.

**Machines/Computer Certificates**: Identity and authentication of devices.

**Email certificates**: Use PKI in emails.

**User certificates**: Associate certificates to people.


##### Certificate Formats
---
**X.509 Digital Certificates**: Standardized structure of certificates.

**Distinguished Encoding Rules (DER)**: A set of rules to encode X.509 certs.
- In binary. Commonly used in Java.

**Privacy-Enhanced Mail (PEM)**: A common format to encode DER certificates in BASE64.
- In plaintext (ASCII format), can send through email.

**Public Key Cryptography Standards #12 (PKCS #12 or .p12)**: Personal Information Exchange (PFX) Syntax Standards.

**.cer (Certificate)**: A Windows X.509 file extension. Only contains public key.

**PKCS #7 (.p7b)**: Cryptographic message syntax. Contains certs and chain certs. 

##### Certificate Concepts
---
**Online vs Offline CAs**: Put Root CA offline and protect it, only use intermediate CAs online.

**OCSP Stapling**: Store certificate holder status locally.

**Pinning**: Compile the cert and public key of the intended server into the application
- Without pinning, applications may rely on the local machine's CA to decide trusting a certificate or not.
- Pinning ensures that the application can only communicate with the intended server, as it can only be decrypted the private key of the pinned certificates. 

**Key escrow**: Third party holding your private keys.
- They may create a secondary decryption key.

**Certificate Chaining**: 
- **Chain of Trust**: List all the certs between server and the root CA.
	- Starts with the SSL certs we connected to, and ends with the Root CA cert.
	- Intermediate Certs are chain certs.