##### Personnel Security
---
**Acceptable Use Policy (AUP)**: Constraints and practices on accessing and using corporate assets (e.g., network and devices).

**Business Policies**:
- **Job Rotation**: Keep people moving between responsibilities. Reduce duration of control from one person.

- **Mandatory Vacation Policy**: When one employee is off vacation, another employee has to take on their position and tasks. 
	- This allows employees to monitor each other's activities, and may potentially reveal some malicious plans happening within groups of employees.

- **Separation of Duties**: Avoid one person holding too much power.
	- **Split knowledge**: No one has all the details, e.g., half of a password.
	- **Dual Control**: Two people have to be present at the same time.

- **Clean Desk Policy**: Avoid shoulder surfing and limit exposure of sensitive information.

**Least Privilege**: Bare minimum of permission for users to do their job. Nothing more.

**Adverse Action**: Denying employment based on results from background check.

**Non-Disclosure Agreement (NDA)**: Confidentiality Agreement.
- Can be one-way or mutual.

##### Third-party Risk Management
---
**Service Level Agreement (SLA)**: Minimum terms for services provided.
- E.g., Agreement on uptime, response time, etc.
- Commonly used between service provider and customers.

**Memorandum of Understanding (MOU)**: Agreement that don't require a full blown contract.
- Memo that is sent between the two parties to understand the requirements for a particular business process.
- An Informal letter of intend. May not have legal binding power.

**Measurement System Analysis (MSA)**: Assess the measurement system and process itself.
- A way for companies to evaluate and assess the quality of the process used in the measurement systems.
- Companies use measurement systems to collect data on their production, thus it is important to ensure the measurement of data is accurate.

**Business Partnership Agreement (BPA)**: Working with a business partner.

**End of Life (EOL)**: Companies no longer selling the product. May still have updates.

**End of Service Life (EOSL)**: No longer selling nor updating the product.

##### Managing Data
---
**Data Steward**: The person that manages the governance processes of data.
- Also decide sensitive labels for data.

##### Credential Policies
---
**Personnel Accounts**: Account that associate with one specific person.
- Data private to user. Identifiable also means accountable.
- No privileged access to OS.
- Should be default for everyone, even for IT staff. If IT staff need additional privileges, they can use a temporary elevated account.

##### Organizational Policies
---
**Change Management**: Any changes occurring in an organization (e.g., upgrading software) should be managed and documented.
- Formal process for making changes: **Change Control**.