##### Risk Management Types
---
**Risk-acceptance**: Accepting and taking the risk.

**Risk-avoidance**: Stop participating in high-risk activities, e.g., giving up a risky deal.

**Risk-transference**: Transferring the risk to another party. Usually through insurance.

**Risk-mitigation**: Decrease risk level through investment / involvement in security activities, e.g., purchasing security hardware, patching.


##### Risk Analysis and Evaluation
---
**Risk Register**: Identifying and documenting risks associated with each business step.
- Also known as a risk log. Created in the preparation phase, and used during project execution.

**Risk Matrix / Heatmap**: Visually present the result of a risk assessment and identify the risks based on colour.
- Likelihood x Impact.

**Inherent Risk**: Risks that exist when there is no security controls.

**Residual Risk**: Risks that exist after considering existing controls.

**Control Risk**: Likelihood of lost due to malfunction or absence of relevant internal controls.
- Usually referring to financial statements being materially misstated, e.g., documenting a profit when there is actually a loss.
	- Due to undocumented asset loss.


**Risk control assessment**: Gap analysis after identifying risks.
- For building cybersecurity requirements, and build controls upon the requirements.
- Also ensure plans are following compliance.
- e.g., HIPAA (Health), GDPR (EU).

**Qualitative Risk Assessment**: Identify significant risk factors.
- Ask for opinions, identifying potential reasons and impacts.
- Visually displayed as Traffic light grid, or Risk Matrix.

**Quantitative Risk Assessment**: Using objective and measurable data to calculate the likelihood, probability, value, etc.
- **Annualized Rate of Occurrence (ARO)**: Likelihood of happening in a year.
- **Single Loss Expectancy (SLE)**: Monetary loss if a single event occurs.
- **Annualized Loss Expectancy (ALE)**: ARO x SLE (Likelihood x Impact).
	- Happen 10 times a year, each time $100, ALE = 10 x 100 = $1000


##### Business impact analysis
---
**Recovery Time Objective (RTO)**: Targeted duration of time to restore services. (Maximum time needed to fix the failure). Shorter the better.
- 

**Recovery Point Objective (RPO)**:  Maximum amount of data that can be lost after recovery. 
- A service level goal.
- How much data can be lost in one failure? When recovering the system, how far back does the backup need to go?
- Related to Backup frequency. When backup is performed more frequently, the less data will be lost in one failure.

**Mean Time to Repair (MTTR)**: Average time required to fix the issue. Shorter the better.
- ***Difference with RTO***: RTO is the target, while MTTR is the actual time recorded or expected.
- Best scenario: RTO > MTTR. 
	- If MTTR is larger than RTO, that means the target is not met.

**Mean Time Between Failure (MTBF)**: Average on-time between failures. Longer the better.

**Mean Time Till Failure (MTTF)**: Expected lifetime of an un-repairable device.


**Functional Recovery Plans**: Step by step guide to recover from outage.
- E.g., Contact information (who will be on-call during outage?)
- Technical process (list of steps to following during recovery)
- Recover and test (test the system before getting back online)

**Disaster Recovery Plan (DRP)**: Detailed plan for resuming operation after disaster has occurred.
- Include a range of disaster scenarios, e.g., losing an application, a data centre or a whole region.
- Extensive planning on: Backups, Off-site data replication, Cloud alternatives, Remote sites (Hot site, cold site?).
- Third-party solutions that specialize in disaster recovery, e.g., renting physical locations, or recovery services.

**Mission Essential Functions**: Focus on critical work functions that have to be performed.
- After identifying what business functions are the most essentials, we can then identify critical computing systems that are related to these business functions.

##### Disaster Types
---
**Environmental**: External environment disasters like flooding, tornado, etc.

**Person-made**: Disasters that are human-related. Could be intentional, by negligence or just error.
- Crime, riots, fire, anything with human element also count.

**Internal**: Disasters that rooted from inside of the organisation.
- Could be from employees, or simply technical failures.

**External**: Disasters that are from outside threats.
- Could be external threat actors.