##### Privacy and Data Breaches
---
**Information Life Cycle**:
- *Creation and Receipt*: Internally create data or externally receive data.
- *Distribution*: Sort and store the data into appropriate areas.
- *Use*: Use data to make decision, create product and services.
- *Maintenance*: Constantly retrieving and transferring the data.
- *Disposition*: Securely archive or dispose the data.

**Privacy Notice**: Policy document on how personal data is handled and how privacy is protected.

##### Data Classifications
---
**Classifications**:
- **Proprietary**: Data that is property of organization. Private and unique to the organization.
- **Personal Identifiable Information (PII)**: Data that can be used to identify an individual.
	- E.g., Name, Date of Birth, Mother's Maiden name, Biometric Info.
- **Protected Health Information (PHI)**: Health information associated with an individual.
	- E.g., Health status, health care records, related payments, etc.

- **Public / Unclassified**: No restrictions on viewing the data.
- **Private / Classified**: Restricted access and may need an NDA.
- **Sensitive PII (SPII)**: More sensitive PII that is usually PII plus elements like ethnic/religious affiliation, sexual orientation, criminal history, etc.
- **Confidential**: Even more sensitive, must be approved to access.
- **Critical**: Data should always be available for access.

##### Enhancing Privacy
---
**Tokenization**: refer to [[2.1. Security Concepts  in Enterprise#^2c1ec4 |this]].

**Data minimization**: Only collect and retain necessary data. Nothing more.

**Data Masking**: Obfuscate part of the origin data.
- E.g. Only display last four digit of the credit card.

**Anonymization**: Remove personal identifiable information from the data, making it impossible to identify individual from the dataset.


##### Data Roles and Responsibilities
---
**Data Owner**: Accountable for specific data, e.g., Sales own CS data, Treasurer owns financial information. Usually senior position.

**Data Controller**: Manages the purpose of the data, as well as which personal data is processed.
- E.g., the payroll department defines the payroll amount and timeframe.

**Data Processor**: Process data on behalf of data controller. The one the works on the data. Usually a third-party or a different group.
- E.g., A third-party payroll company processes the payroll and store employee information. (Usually targeting small-business)

**Data Custodian/Steward**: The person that manages the governance processes of data.
- Responsible for data accuracy, privacy and security.
- Also decide sensitive labels for data.
- Ensure data processing is in compliance.
- Manage access rights to data.
- Implement security controls.
