##### Incident Handling Guides
---
**NIST SP800-61**: Computer Security Incident Handling Guide.
- Incident Life Cycle:
	- Preparation
	- Detection and Analysis
	- Containment, Eradication, and Recovery
	- Post-incident Activities

##### Exercise
---
**Tabletop exercises**: Discussion-based sessions. Informal, and not a full-scale disaster drill.
- Mainly involve team members discussing their roles and responses during an emergency.
- Usually does not involve any system changes

**Walkthrough**: Moving beyond tabletop and include responders.
- Not only with the management, but all groups and personnel (e.g., security guards.) with reference to the actual materials.
	- All hardware and software should also be up-to-date.
- Used to identify faulty or missing steps.

**Simulation**: Pretend an event has occurred, e.g., phishing.
- Used to check if controls are in place, both technical and operational (people)
- May involve system changes in order to facilitate the simulation.





##### Attack Frameworks
---
**MITRE ATT&CK framework**: Provide explicit steps and pseudo-codes examples for how to detect or mitigate a given threat.


**The Diamond Model of Intrusion Analysis**: Graphical representation of an attacker's behaviour

**Cyber Kill Chain**: Seven phases of cyber attack
1. Reconnaissance
	1. Gathering Intel & information to prepare for the attack
2. Weaponization
	1. Building the "weapons" needed for the attack (e.g., a payload)
3. Delivery
	1. Sending the weapon to the target. (e.g., send the script via email)
4. Exploit
	1. Executing the payload on target's network.
5. Installation
	1. After successfully exploit security loopholes, install the malware/the payload.
6. Command & Control
	1. When remote access is needed, a C2 channel is created.
7. Actions on objectives
	1. The attacker can remotely carry out their objectives.







- Lockheed Martin CKC: General Life Cycle of how attack occurs, but no information on mitigation, as well as doesn't account for attackers retreating.
