##### Wireless Attacks
---
**Bluesnarfing**: While Bluejacking can only send messages, Bluesnarfing can download files. However already patched very early on.

**WiFi Disassociation Attack**: A type of DOS by forcing WiFi users to de-authenticate and disconnect.
- Send de-auth frames to targeted devices.
- Already patched, 802.11w, July 2014.
- Now important frames are encrypted.

**Wireless Jamming**: A type of DOS by transmitting interfering wireless signals (noise)
- Weaken the authentic signal.
- Jamming has to be close in proximity.

**Initialization vector (IV) / Nonce**: A randomized number used with the key in encryption.
- Salt is a type of nonce.





##### Layer 2 (Data Link) Attacks
---
**Address Resolution Protocol (ARP) Poisoning / Spoofing**: On-path attack that takes advantage of the fact that ARP does not have any security controls.
- Devices in a local network usually have a dynamic IP and a physical MAC address.
- When first time communicating with another device within a local subnet, a device would only have the target's IP (Layer 3).
- The device would first ask for the target device's MAC address (Layer 2) by broadcasting this query to all IPs.
	- ARP packet: What is the MAC address for this IP?
- Normally, only the device that has the corresponding IP will reply to this query.
- However, an attacker can spoof such query and trick the new device to direct all traffics to the attacker.
- ***How to identify***: Duplicate MAC addresses

**MAC Flooding**: attacking the switch by filling up its MAC address table with many unique MAC addresses.
- When there is no more space, the switch will directly broadcast all messages to all devices (as it has no idea where to send), essentially becoming a hub.

**MAC Cloning**: Changing its MAC address to copy another device
- recently disconnected device / whitelisted device to bypass filters.



##### DNS Attacks
---
**DNS Spoofing**: Cause the domain to lead to a fake IP.
- Application layer. Also called DNS Poisoning.
- Either by controlling the DNS server
- Or by spoofing local DNS configuration file (this will override DNS server response)
	- For Win10, it is the Hosts file under `C:\Windows\System32\drivers\etc\hosts`

**Domain hijacking**: Gain access to domain registration site -> does not need to touch the server

**URL highjacking**: Typo-squatting. Fake URLs that look real.

**Domain Reputation**: Search engines & email servers may automatically flag some domains as spam & malicious if they have bad records.


##### Denial of Service
---
**DDoS Amplification**: Send a small message and use other protocols to amplify the final resulting message to the server. (借力打力)
- E.g., using DNS query, one line of query (~30 characters) can return many lines of response (~1300 characters). 
- Using a spoofed IP address of the victim, the DNS query response will then be sent to the victim's server by the public DNS resolvers.