##### Social Engineering
---
**Phishing**: Usually target individuals & aim to collect credentials
- Vishing
- Smishing
- Spear-fishing: Targeted attack at individuals or group
	- Whaling: Targeted at rich people

**Pharming**: Website takeover/DNS poisoning -> redirect all users from the legit webpage. (Harvest)

**Prepending**: Adding a trustworthy value at the start of a spam/phishing email (e.g., **RE:** , **\[APPROVED]**)

**Pretexting**: Presenting a seemingly legitimate story before conducting the attack.

**Hoaxes**: a fake attack that looks like a reap security threat, e.g., a fake warning pop-up in a website ads. 

**Watering hole attack**: indirect attack -> attack large groups of people by targetting a commonly visited website.
- Watering hole: predators lurking around water source for prey.

**Spam filtering**: 
- Blacklist/Whitelist
- SMTP standard checking
	- RFC 5321 (RFC: Request for comments, a series of documents from the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF), with some of them being the specifications & standards of modern internet.)
- Reverse DNS check
	- Does the sender IP match its claimed domain?
- *Tarpitting*
	- Slowing down email server to increase time costs of sender spamming
- Recipient filtering
	- Filter/Reject all emails that are sent to an invalid address (e.g. when spammer is trying to brute force)


##### Principles of Social Engineering:
---
**Authority**
	- e.g., 入境處、IT help desk

**Intimidation**
	- 恐嚇: you/something will be in big trouble if you don't comply.

**Consensus / Social Proof**
	- Social pressure, e.g., norms, conformity, etc.

**Scarcity**
**Urgency**
**Familiarity/Liking**
**Trust**
