##### Embedded Systems
---
**Raspberry Pi**: A small single-board computer (SBC)
- Features a system-on-a-chip (SOC) - an integrated circuit that integrates most components of the system (Contrasting to a PC with motherboard and detachable hardware components).
- Hard to upgrade.

**Field-programmable gate array (FPGA)**: An integrated circuit that can be programmed after manufacturing.
- Allow new software to be pushed into the device. Allow flexibility.
- Commonly used in infrastructure devices.

**Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition System (SCADA)**: Connecting a large amount of industrial equipment that can be be networked.
- Also refers to Industrial Control System (ICS)

**Voice over IP (VoIP)**: Delivering voice communication over IP (internet protocol) instead of phone cables. ^19871e

**Heat, Ventilation, Air Conditioning (HVAC)**

**Real Time Operating System (RTOS)**: OS with a deterministic (real-time) response to external events.
- Traditional OS like Windows and UNIX performs multitasking by quickly switching between tasks. CPU threads (resources) are allocated to the user based on the current requests to achieve an illusion of multitasking. The time required for tasks to run is flexible.
	- Imagine the OS is running 6 tasks at a time. To multitasking, the OS will "share" time between the 6 tasks, which means each of them will be quickly run for a portion of the time in rotation, creating the illusion of processing all 6 tasks at the same time.
	- A time-sharing OS cannot promise when will a task be performed.
- For RTOS, priorities of tasks are set before running the system. When a task is triggered by an external event, the time required for the task to start running should be deterministic, i.e., the task will react within the exact same amount of time when triggered every time.
	- Even if the system is already running at full capacity, if a higher priority task is triggered, it will still be performed in the pre-defined time.
	- Thus, a hard RTOS cannot "multitask", as it will not switch between other tasks when running the highest priority task (to ensure a fixed time of reaction, as running other tasks at the same time will lead to uncertainty of processing time.)


##### Embedded Systems Communication
---
**Subscriber Identity Module (SIM) Card**

**Narrowband Signal**: Opposite of Broadband. High power, Lower range of frequency.
- Concentrated waves of signal. Higher transmit power, thus good at low power usage.
- Small range of frequency, thus lower speed of transmission. Also does not allow multiple channels.
- The higher efficiency in power and bandwidth use allow longer travel distance with less power.

**Baseband Signal**: A single frequency range to communicate. (0 - xx Hz)
- Baseband signals starts from 0Hz up to a certain cut-off.
	- Thus, "Base" refers to it occupying the base, or the lowest range of the spectrum.
	- As it starts from 0 and there can only be one baseband signal, it can easily represent 0 and 1, which allows digital signalling. (low voltage = 0, high voltage = 1)
	- Allows easy separation of signal from noise or interference.

- Utilize entire bandwidth of a communication channel (a cable) to send a single signal at a time.
	- No other signals are sent simultaneously within the same bandwidth in the same channel.
	- In a single cable, only this signal will be transmitted, cannot transmit other signals.

**Zigbee**: Alternative wireless connection protocols for IOT
- As known as IEEE 802.15.4.PAN
- Longer range than Bluetooth and less power consumption than WiFi


